so you've been listening to proceedings
at the international court of justice
this is day two of South Africa's
petition against Israel South Africa as
a reminder accusing Israel of genocide
and asking the court to order for
provisional measures to stop uh the way
Israel is conducting this war now that
was South Africa made its case yesterday
what we've been hearing over the last
hour and a half or so and we'll continue
to hear after this coffee break is
Israel's defense against this allegation
of uh genocide alzer's senior political
analyst Marwan bishara is with me you've
been listening along with me to this for
the last hour and a half I suppose we
we'll get into more detail on this
especially afterwards when we've heard
the whole thing but what's your initial
reaction to what you've been hearing
well look I think the uh the team the
legal team started very weak in fact uh
some bits of it was almost illogical the
idea about to start a defense uh of
Israel in the case of genocide by saying
about what about Hamas I think that was
quite weak uh talking about Hamas uh
that was the legal adviser to Israel's
foreign Ministry who was making that
point most yes absolutely that's how it
all started and and the idea of
comparing hamas's damage to Gaza with
Israel's damage to Gaza I thought that
was just almost illogical saying that
Hamas also would be trapped buildings
when we know and we've heard yesterday
how tens of thousands of bombs were
dropped on Gaza by Israel so making
those comparisons seemed very strange to
me very weak and the idea of trying and
compare images Israeli babies really
Israelis want to compare the few babies
there with 7even 8,000 babies killed I
thought also that was not a good line of
defense the second point that I thought
was quite weak was the context the idea
that there is no context other than
October 7 and we cannot go back to 75
years of dispossession and occupation I
thought that was totally meritless and
third the idea of the the benevolence
how Israel does not aim to destroy
civilians but to protect civilians I
thought that was way beyond the logic of
what we've seen unravel in plain sight
over the past three months now you get
to the strong points the strong points
were two One Technical and one profound
the technical one was dispute that South
Africa did not make enough effort to go
and exchange views with Israel about the
issue and I think he could almost get
Israel off technicality that wait a
minute these are two states are supposed
to have a dispute not a Unis it's an
interesting one there there needs to be
a dispute for the court to actually hear
this case is there a dispute he's saying
no there isn't well yesterday dugar the
uh the South African judge did claim
that there was and and and the and the
appeals by South Africa were basically
dismissed now we're saying from We're
hearing from the Israelis that no they
were not exactly dismissed it was very
short time and it was Jewish holiday and
how we could we get those notes from
them we will probably the judges will
have to make decisions on that again
it's technicality more than anything
else because there's a certain urgency
here and the South Africans were not
going to wait to the for the
procrastination of Israel to take its
course until everyone in Gaza is
destroyed and whatever anyway the other
strong point you think they made I think
the most the strongest point was the
framework and the
intent so you could claim that Israel
carried heus crimes terrible crimes and
you can make all the claims want but is
it genocide because if it's not genocide
or under the genocide convention framed
that way then this court has no
jurisdiction to discuss any of it it
doesn't matter how bad the situation the
case disappears yeah and his and his
case for the intent was as such Israelis
might be saying a lot of terrible things
they might be angry they might be
infuriated by the October 7 account but
does that add up to intent carried out
by the war cabinet or the security
cabinet trickled down to the command of
the military in order to carry a
genocide against the Palestinian
destroying them in whole or in part does
the anger and the statements or Israel
speaking from out of both sides of its
mouth like Netanyahu like Galant does
that add up to genocidal intent or that
just a bunch of Israelis being very
angry and infuriated at Hamas let's take
this to our Le